Maybe we should write a real test from one
of the handlers to see what that looks
like with Prisma, and
then we can try something else.
So let's do that, so
I'm gonna go to handlers.
Let us actually write a real test here
versus what's actually happening.
So let's bring in that user,
so we can bring in * as user
from, User, cool.
And I wanna test on the user that we can
actually create a new user, let's do that.
So I'll say it should create a new user,
okay?
And I'll say async, so
I'll say user =, I can't say user.
NewUser = await, user.create new user.
And if you look at this, it expects
a request a response and next, okay?
So you can like, basically, this function
doesn't know that it's in Express.
It is saying it needs these three things.
We're the one calling the function,
we can mark these three things out.
We can make them be whatever we want.
I am just looking at this code and
tell you that like, they want the request
object and that request object needs to
have a body object that has a username and
a body object that's a password.
Okay, cool, I'll do that.
And it also needs the response object,
response to be an object with a JSON
function on it, so I can do that.
You can mock these out yourself.
You can download packages that
will mock them out for you.
There's a lot of ways around it.
I'm just gonna mock it out myself for
now, so
we can actually just see the result of it.
So let's do that.
So I need to mock out requests and
I need a mock out response.
So let's do that.
So I'll say, Routes.
And what's really cool, is that you can
actually use something called a spy.
A spy is like a mocked piece of
functionality that will tell you when some
other piece of code interacted with it.
We probably won't need to do
that right now but we can do it.
So a request is just an object has a body
property on it that has a username,
hello and a password, Hi, okay?
And then RES is also an object
that has a JSON function on it.
And if we were gonna make a spy,
this would be the spy.
This is what will be the spy because
we would we would wanna see that this
was called and
that it was called with like a token.
And we want to see that token, right?
So we can make this a spy, we can also
just like get the token from here and
then we can do an expect inside of here.
We can say expect(token)toBeTruthy(),
we can do something like that.
And then we can also say expect or
assertion count or something like that.
We can tell just how many expectations
should be called because if this doesn't
get called, I mean, JSON was never called,
and that would be like a faulty test.
So you would wanna tell just like I should
expect to see at least one expect call,
if not more, that's good indeed.
So we say createUser,
we'll say req, we'll say res, and
these next I'm just gonna just do that for
next.
So we can do that.
This isn't going to be a new user because
it doesn't return anything, right?
This is just a handler,
it doesn't actually return anything, so
it's not gonna be a new user.
So really the only way we can
verify that something got created.
It was we had to do another query the
database after this ran to see there was
a user with that, or we can just look at
the result of the token, one of the two.
We're just gonna get the token for
now and just be naive about it,
but let's see what happens.
We'll do that and
then let's run the tests.
And yep, obviously the integration test
failed cuz we broke that one, right?
I just never fixed it, but
the unit tests we just wrote passed.
So it's fine, it worked because it
actually did run this, which was expected.
If I log this token,
you actually see it, right?
Well, now it's gonna break because, and
I'll tell you why it's gonna break,
actually anybody know why this is
gonna break if I write it again
It's like, wait, it just work,
why would it break?
All you do is log something.
Yeah, it's definitely gonna break,
if I run this, it's not gonna pass.
It's because I'm creating a user
with the same username again, right?
In a test, you wanna make sure you delete
the database every test run, you wanna
clean database, in fact you should be
using a different database for testing.
You probably want a local database, you
should be using a host database to host,
it's expensive.
So you want a local database and
you make sure you clean the database,
you delete everything
after every single run.
And the way you can do that is
like before all, before each,
after all, after each,
inside of those functions,
you can say,
delete everything I just did in his test.
So when the next test runs, it's good.
That's one way to do it.
You can also set a configuration file
ingest that runs before all your tests
run, that just drops the database.
But you never wanna have stateful tests,
whereas like there's one test that runs
and adds something to the database.
And then you have another
test that runs and
it relies on the stuff
that this thing added.
You will have the worst test ever.
Don't do that,
every test should be stateless and
non-reliant on any other test.
But yeah, this is gonna fail, let see.
No, I guess not, I guess it doesn't care,
it passed anyway somehow,
that should not have passed because
there's already a user in there.
It just passed again.
I wonder if it, did it log a token?
No, I didn't even log a token actually.
I think this is just a false positive,
but yeah, and
maybe our test was never
passing in the first place.
And we just found out that it was just
a bad test because this actually never
ran and no expectations actually
ran maybe that's what's happening.
But yeah,
don't put stuff in the database and
not delete it during a test
>> Is there a big difference having one
test directory over
having tests everywhere?
What are the pros and cons?
>> You'll have smaller test files.
Yeah, that's probably the biggest pros,
smaller test files and,
Yeah, smaller test files and
then you would probably be able to
configure different options for
different tests if they were individually
group versus putting them all together,
adding the options to all the tests,
so more flexibility.
And in a bigger app, just anything that's
more abstract away is usually easier.
So different teams can work on
different things without conflicts.
The last thing you want is
a merge conflict on a test file.
That's the worst worst conflict because
it's like you don't wanna touch it.
Because you know all those tests were
passing like for a whole year straight.
And now you got a merge conflict in there.
And it's like I don't
wanna touch this file,
somebody comes save me because if you
try to fix that merge conflict and
you break a test,
good luck it's gonna be a bad day.